---
title: "Unsorted bin"
published: false
tags: []
---

In this page I will list some curiosities I've been collecting over the years and that I found interesting or surprising. You will likely know some of them, but you might not have heard of all of them.

## UNSORTED
## #2
(gnu?) apps are all vulnerable to format strings.. kind off.. translation stuff.. '/home/jofra/Documents/github/csgo_fuzz/zzz_other/locale_exploit'


## #3
`chrome://chrome-urls/` has a list of chrome protocol urls.  `chrome://net-internals/#dns` can be used to flush DNS cache for example

## #4
Sections on page boundaries can have different permissions than what would be expected. Since permissions are applied by page, if the previous section is executable, and the next one is only readable, if the start of the later is in the same mem page as the first one, it will have exec permissions as well
   - also .rodata is always executable for some reason (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44938745/rodata-section-loaded-in-executable-page)
   - Look for differences in `gcc` vs `clang`. Does clang generate a read only segment?

## #5
`mov eax, 2` extends to all 64 bits, but all others mini rax's (`ax`, `al`, ...) don't. (Confirm, but I'm pretty sure)

## #6
All registers, except rcx and r11 (and the return value, rax), are preserved during the syscall. (Confirm. Check for different archs.. x86, x64..). Also after calling `syscall`, rcx == rip, but not with `int 0x80` (confirmed! always? why?? what's the difference between the 2?)

## #7
Func's with no args can receive an arbitrary amount of args in C :o. Use (void) to prevent this.

```C
#include <stdio.h>

void func_1() {
    printf("func_1\n");
}

int main() {
    func_1();
    func_1(1);
    func_1(1, 2, 3);
    return 0;
}
```

## #8
If you change the value of argv[0] inside a program, `ps aux` will reflect that

## #9
Pressing 'left ALT' and then writing a number (e.g. 300) and then a letter (e.g. 'A'), will write that letter the given amount of times (e.g. 'AAA..' 300 times)

## #10
When you LD_PRELOAD a different libc, and the program crashes it's likely because the loader/dynamic_linker does not match (TODO: What is the actual problem?). If you LD_PRELOAD the correct linker as well, all is good. Must be `LD_PRELOAD=./ld-2.23.so:./libc_32.so.6 ./prog` and not `LD_PRELOAD=./libc_32.so.6:./ld-2.23.so ./prog` (TODO: Why??). `patchelf --set-interpreter ../ld-2.23.so ./dubblesort_test` é melhor ainda (better notes in security notes)

## #11
`scanf("%u")` fails when you send '+' but does no go crazy as it would if you were to send 'a'. (see pwnable.tw hacknote)

## #12
How to find where the `fs` segment is mapped?
    - `strace ./trick_or_treat 2>&1 | grep ARCH_SET_FS`
    - https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/453749/what-sets-fs0x28-stack-canary

## #13
The global canary in `fs:0x28` IS writable! So is `fs:0x20` with is used to DEMANGLE exit pointers.

## #14
What command would you use if you had to execute a shell with only hex digits?
    - `ed` and then `!bash`

## #15
Sometimes you can read from stdout or stderr instead of stdin and it works!
    > This works because when you are at the console in the terminal, STDIN, STDOUT, and STDERR all ultimately point to the same resource: /dev/tty
    - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46248477/reading-from-stderr-instead-of-stdin

```
#include <unistd.h>

int main(int argc, char** argv) {
    char buf[50];
    read(1, buf, 1000);
    puts(buf);
    return 0;
}
```

## #16
Add struct in gdb:
    - Write the file below with the correct struct (important to keep the instantiation)
    - Compile with `gcc -c a.c -ggdb`
    - In gdb `add-symbol-file ./a.o 0`

```
#include <stdint.h>
struct da {
	char* content;
	uint16_t offset;
	uint16_t max;
	uint32_t uk1;
	uint64_t uk2;
};
​
struct da foo;
```

## #17
On windows, if an exe filename contains `patch` or `update` (maybe more??), it requires admin privilege to run. What!? (confirm)

## #18
Precedent in C makes these 2 comparisons give different results. In python this does not happen. Wow

```C
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
    int i = 0;
    if ((i & 1) == 0) {
        printf("YES 1\n");
    }
    if (i & 1 == 0) {
        printf("YES 2\n");
    }
}

```python
i = 0
if (i & 1) == 0:
    print "YES 1"

if i & 1 == 0:
    print "YES 2"
```

## #19
`LD_BIND_NOW=1 ./bin` resolves library addresses (like if the binary had Full RELRO) at link time even if the binary was not compiled with Full RELRO
